A picture is worth a thousand words.
Graphs are widely used to illustrate and
to communicate.
In this module we focus on graphical
ways of representing data.
With the help of commonly available
software such as eupcrators Excel,
creating a graph from data
is almost effortless.
Unfortunately, that does not
mean that creating a graph
especially a good one is easy.
Often times, the graphs created using
default options in software packages
are confusing, effective,
or even misleading.
Even though we all realize the importance
of creating effective graphs
most people receive little
training on how to achieve that.
At the University of Colorado Boulder I
have been teaching a course on data
analytics for Master's students
in business analytics and
MBA students in the last several years.
Which includes a module
on data validation.
I briefly touched upon some
of the material cover there
in second course of this specialization in
the context of exploratory data analysis.
In this module I dive
deeper to further discuss
how to create effective
data visualizations.
I will start with the different vehicles
to present the quantitative information.
Note that a graph is not
the only way to present data.
There are alternative ways,
such as tables and text.
I will discuss the pros and cons of each.
I will continue with a set of
examples of data visualizations
farmed from various sources.
Most of the examples we'll discuss
are not considered good visualizations.
We will talk about what are some of
the good and bad aspects of this examples.
Understanding what makes a graph good or
bad is the first step toward creating
effective data visualizations yourself.
While there is growing area
of data visualization tools,
Excel remains one of
the most widely used tools.
We will briefly discuss graphs
that are available in Excel.
Analytical server platform, software
that we introduced in course two comes
with some additional graphing tools
which we will also briefly discuss.
Creating effective data visualizations
have been a topic of study for many years.
Over the years,
many commonly accepted principles of
data visualizations have been developed.
In the video Graphical Excellence,
we discussed some of those principles.
Those guiding principles are extremely
helpful when we construct our own graphs.
2D graphs usually can only
display two variables at a time.
There are situations when it makes sense
to display three or more variables.
We will discuss several useful
techniques for those cases.
Finally, we discuss Excel
charts that should be avoided.
After completing this module
you will be able to better
understand the characteristics
of good graphs and
avoid common mistakes when
creating your own graphs.
Let's get started.